Now we are signing up and we are able to activate our user.
Now let's add a user listing functionality.
We are going to add a component to home page to list the user's back end is having an endpoint for listing
the users and we can pull the users like this.
Here in browser.
If we send the get request to this end point, we will be returning and response like this one.
There is object and there is this content array and there is page and size and how many pages are there?
We have these informations and in the content array we have the user information like the user one,
user two and the others.
By the way, I'm using an extension in Chrome to format this JSON.
If you don't have that extension, then you will see the output like this one.
So we are going to get the users from backend and we will display these users on the home page.
For this one, we are going to create a new component.
So here in the terminal, let's create a new one and angular cly and g, g, c and g generate component.
And this component will be user list and it's going to be used in the home home page.
So I'm setting the relative pet as home.
So it's going to be created on the home directory and the component name will be user list.
And for this one we are going to have the test and let's go with the default.
So hitting enter.
So the component is created under home folder.
And that module is also updated with the declarations of this component.
So basically this component will be responsible for loading the users from backend.
In the backend, the user list is paginated, which means we will display next and previous page options
on this component as well.
Now let's open the home component.
We are going to display the the user list and also let's check the user list components.
So this is our selector, so let's use it right here.
So we will have app user list right here.
Let's say this one.
So this is the user list works a paragraph coming with the user list component is HTML right here.
Let's start the implementation by adding a header for this component.
If you remember for the signup page, our first test was about checking the existence of the header,
but that was more about warming up to those tests.
The most important part to test is the interactions and functionalities, so existence of the elements
are already part of those interactions tests.
So for the header part, I'm not going to add the test, but let's add the the template here.
So this there will be an H3 and it's going to have the text of this user.
So the user is like this, but I'm going to use the bootstrap style and I'm going to use a bootstrap
card style.
And basically this H three is going to be card car theater.
And we will move that to the center of this this day.
So just moving the H three into the cart header, saving this one.
Now it is looking like this.
And after this header we are going to list the users.
Now let's implement the functionality.
So this component will be loading users from back and as soon as it is added to the page.
In the tests for the this component, we will handle the rest request.
So let's open the user list spec.
Yes, first.
Now we are going to interact with the HTP client because we are going to use it for loading the user.
And here in the test module we will import.
That's it right here.
Import importing the HTTP client testing module.
So this is the last module and we are going to have the HTP testing controller which is having the type
of HTTP testing controller and we are going to.
Inject it right here.
Test bed inject http testing controller.
And we will assign it to the HTP testing controller we have right here.
So let's add our first test.
Just removing the default one.
And the test is it displays three users in list.
So by default we will pull only three users in each page.
So in this test we will verify that.
So we are going to make the request to this endpoint API one zero users.
If you remember, we are sending signup requests to the same end point, but there is a difference in
the signup request we are sending post and when we are going to get the users, we will use the HTP
method.
So that's the difference between these requests.
So we are going to handle request coming to this endpoint and we handle it like this.
We are expecting one request to be sent to this API one zero users.
We can fine tune the assertion here like we can also check the the method.
We have done that in the signup spec previously.
And we did that in this test.
It is based email in use of an email is not unique.
So here we have the HTTP testing controller and we pass a function to it.
And in this function we are taking the URL method and body and we are doing these controls here.
Then we are handling the request accordingly.
We could do that fine tuning in this one as well.
But since this test is just focusing to the single component and we are not going to be sending any
signup request to this end point, then there is no case that this endpoint to be called for another
request.
So we know that it's going to be always for loading the user.
So this is the let's say this is the request, then we are going to return the response.
And in the response we will send the the payload like we see here.
So let's just copy this one.
And I'm adding it as a variable here and I'm naming it like, let's say this is the page and pasting
the value I copied and to format this better, I'm using the vs code format functionality and here the
page is looking like this.
So we have the users, but we are going to limit the the visible element to three.
So just removing the others.
So only having three users in this list.
And the size indicates the number of elements in that page.
So let's have a consistent behavior here.
So it's going to be three and the total of pages is not relevant at this point.
So.
When we send a request to this end point, we are going to return a response to the client.
And basically we are going to return the response by calling request flesh and is a body.
We will be passing this page object and that page object is this one.
Then in the end the UI will be updated and it's going to be updated like this fixture, the deck changes
and now we can check the, the elements having the user's info.
So there are three users and we are going to show these users in an an ally list item element.
So we are going to query list item here and we will do that by fixture, native element, query selector.
But we are not going to just query single element.
We are going to have multiple matching element and we are looking for three list items to be there.
And so let's have this variable list items.
And we are expecting this list items at length.
To be three.
So this is the test.
And if we go over one more time, we have this rest handler.
It is going to handle the request coming to this end point and as a result, it's going to be returning
this payload.
And in that list we have three users and we are going to show those users in a list item.
And basically we are querying how many list items are there in the in the page.
By the way, there is a typo here length.
So switching to calm window and let's save this one.
So this test is failing.
It displays three users in the list.
And let's fix this one.
First thing is we need an API called Function.
And so far we gathered all the API related functionalities in this user service.
So let's have another function here and let's call this one is load users and we are going to return
this HTP client.
This time we will call get this is get method and the end point is API one zero.
Users.
So we have our endpoint and in the user list component, we are going to use this function.
So first, we are going to inject the user service here.
User service.
Then we are going to use the the init function here because as soon as this component is mounted to
the screen, we want to load the users from backend and the engine is basically for that.
So we are going to call this user service load users.
So this is observable, we are subscribing to it and it a response body.
Let's say this is the response body.
We will get the page object from backend.
So let's assign it to a variable here.
So we will have an object like page.
Let's say this is Page and we are going to assign this response body to this page.
By the way, this is complaining about the type definitions.
We don't set any type.
Let's define the types here.
So we will have the types.
Like if you go over this one, we will have the types for the, the, the response by the overall response
body like the there will be page and it is having the type of number and the others as well.
And there will be a content array and this content array is going to be having an object type which
is let's call this one is user.
So it will have ID, username, email.
So we are going to define those.
And for those definitions we can do something like this under the shared folder.
Let's create a new folder.
Let's call this one as types and under that one let's have index tags.
So we have types folder and in it we have the index.
Yes.
And here we can define the types like we are going to use these types in the other components.
So we are going to export those and the first type is user.
And in user we have the ID and it has the type of number and we have username type of string and email
and it is going to be string as well.
Then let's export another type which is let's call this one is user page.
And in the user page we have content and this content is an array of user and we define it like this.
It's a new era.
Then there will be page, which is number, then there will be size.
That's number as well.
And the last one is the total pages.
That's also number.
So now we have the types and let's use the types in our component here.
So the first thing is the the page here is basically a type of user page.
So it has the content, the page size and total pages fields and let's have initial value for this one.
So before even we load the data from back and let's make sure we have some initial data for this and
we can assign a default value like this.
So we will have content and the content can be empty and let's add page, it's going to be zero and
let's have the size.
And for the size, size is indicating the size of elements in each page.
Let's go with three because we are going to have three users in each page.
And for total wages.
Again, we can go with zero.
So this is the initial value for the page, but we are going to update the page after we receive a response
from back end.
And this one is not working because the response body has no type.
What we can do here is we can cost the response body to user page like this.
So we are taking the response body, which is actually a user page type of object and we are assigning
the response body to the page property in this class.
So this is how we are loading the data, but still we are not using on the component.
So let's open user list component HTML.
So here after the header, let's add an unordered list UL.
And in this ul, we are going to have list items.
Liz.
And in each of the allies we will have that user's username for for this one we are going to iterate
over the let's open the user this component again.
We are going to iterate over this page content, so we are going to take each item in this from this
array which which is going to be the user object.
Then we are going to take that user's object username.
So here.
To loop in that area.
We are going to use another directive of Angular and that is n g for.
And in G4 is working like this, we are going to take user of page content.
So page content is the array.
We are iterating over it and we are taking each item as this user variable.
Then here is a child.
For each of these lies we can pass, user is the user object.
And here, because of the type definition, we are able to see the the properties it has and we are
going to use the the user's username in this list item.
So let's save all these changes.
We have lots of changes and here we see it is working.
And if you open the browser here we see it is working in this one as well.
So it is basically loading the user from the can.
If you go to the login page and come back to the home page here, see it is loading the users from backend.
We will enhance the the behavior here.
But before going to the next steps, let's change the style here.
Let's, let's go like this.
So this user list is going to be having the class of a list group and a list group flush.
Basically these are the bootstrap classes again.
So this is the unordered list, the parent component for the allies having the style and for the the
list items.
Let's have the adding a new line here.
Let's add the classes of list.
Group item and list.
Group item action.
So let's save this one.
Now the list is visible like this, and now it's looking a bit better.
And the tests are passing.
So we completed the initial implementation and at the moment we have a component which is loading the
users from back end.
By the way, we don't see any errors in our tests, but if we open and check the karma, the console
here, here we see a user list is not a known element.
Error message is visible and that's because a component is also rendering the the home component, which
means there is this app user list in the home component now.
But the the new component is not declared in, in the test modules.
So let's fix that part as well.
So here in the component spec, yes.
So we have the the declarations and let's add user list component to this one as well.
So let's say this one.
And let's check the console once again.
Now it is cleared.